Often, to get an overall view of the data, we can plot pairs of variables against one another to better understand their relationship. In the case of more than 2 variables, a *pairs plot* can be used to show all possible combinations of variables, and different visualization methods can even be used within all the different pairs. Below, we show an example pairs plot that displays the 5 features against each other (in pairs), and with different visuals, each telling of a different aspect of our data. Here, I'll refer to a square within the matrix by its row and column position, such that [1, 1] would refer to the first row (top) and first column (left) of the matrix.

* **Scatter** : using two-variables as the x- and y-axes, each dot represents a single sample, a pair of an x feature and a y feature. These are useful for finding relationships between variables, and can nicely show correlation. Examples are shown in the bottom quadrant of the first four columns (starting at [2, 1]), with the correlation between the two variables shown in the upper quadrant (starting at [1, 2]). Correlation in this case is the Pearson correlation, which can take on a value from [-1, 1], where negative denotes a relationship where an increase in one variable leads to a decrease in the other, and a positive value denotes a mutually increasing relationship.
* **Barplots** : a barplot shows the counts of a given variable. Typically, a barplot also contains error bars if multiple samples are used to denote the error in measurement, where the solid top of the barplot will be the mean of the measurements. An example is shown in [5, 5] - here, the y-axis is not shown, but we know that there are 50 measurements in each species, explaining the equal height of each bar in this case, and the lack of error bars.
* **Density** : these plots show an overall distribution across *one* dimension of a given feature/variable. The y-axis will commonly denote probability, as the function is smoothed along all possible values of x (the given feature). Examples are along the diagonal, starting at [1, 1]. These plots are useful to ascertain the overall distribution, and answer questions such as "is my data normally distributed".
* **Boxplots** : similar to the density plot, the boxplot shows the distribution of a given variable on the y-axis - in this case, petal and sepal measurements - across different categorical variables on the x-axis - in this case, species. The black line indicates the *median* of the measurements, while the top and bottom of the boxes indicate the 3rd and 1st *quartiles*, respectively. The total height of the box represents the interquartile range (IQR). The whiskers can represent different things, but typically will represent the minimum and maximum of the data still within 1.5 IQR, with outliers (data outside this 1.5 IQR range from the median) shown as dots. Examples are shown in the last column, starting at [1, 5].
* **Histogram** : similar to the density plot, a histogram uses defined intervals with which to count the instances within each bin. The interval within each bin is defined as the *bandwidth*, and can be adjusted below the plot. A higher bandwidth means a bigger interval, and ultimately leads to a loss of clarity of the distribution - too low, and we do not see the observations grouped together meaningfully. Here, the y-axis denotes counts, as opposed to probabilities, and is consequently not smoothed. Examples are in the last row, first four columns, starting at [5, 1].

